Over the next couple of videos,
we will introduce you to the basic
components of the Spark stack.
In this lecture, we start with Spark SQL.
After this video, you will be able to
process structured data using Spark's SQL
module and explain the numerous
benefits of Spark SQL.
Spark SQL is the component of Spark
that enables querying structured and
unstructured data through
a common query language.
It can connect to many data sources and
provides APIs to convert
the query results to RDDs in Python,
Scala, and Java programs.
Spark SQL gives a mechanism for
SQL users to deploy SQL queries on Spark.
Spark SQL enables business
intelligence tools to connect to
Spark using standard connection
protocols like JDBC and ODBC.
Spark SQL also provides APIs to
convert the query data into DataFrames
to hold distributed data.
DataFrames are organized as named
columns and basically look like tables.
The first step to run any SQL Spark
is to create a SQLContext.
Once you have an SQLContext,
you want to leverage it
to create a DataFrame so you can deploy
complex operations on the data set.
DataFrames can be created
from existing RDDs,
Hive tables or many other data sources.
A file can be read and converted into
a DataFrame using a single command.
The show function here will display
the DataFrame in your Spark show.
RDDs can be converted to DataFrames but
require a little more work.
First you will have to
convert each line into a row.
Once your data is in a DataFrame,
you can perform all sorts of
transformation operations on it
as shown here, including show,
printSchema, select, filter and groupBy.
To summarize, Spark SQL lets you
run relational queries on Spark.
It also lets you connect to
a variety of databases, and
deploy business intelligence
tools over Spark.
We will go through some of this
functionality in one of the readings and
in the upcoming hands-on session.